>> Kyle Simpson: So what can we
do with this knowledge of scopes?
And, specifically, we've been focusing on
scopes that are organized by functions.
What can we do with that?
What sorts of abilities or
problems does it help us solve?
It's not just theoretical.
We are doing this because we're trying
to build towards a pattern that helps us
organize our code better.
So to build towards that pattern, let's
start doing things with our functions.
Let's talk about this example,
obviously very simple and silly.
But we have a variable, and then later in
the program we are using the variable.
And we're hoping that it
still has the same value.
Right now, everything looks good.
But six months from now, a junior
developer, not knowing what they're doing,
not because they're dumb but just simply
because they didn't see it, not knowing,
comes along and
inserts this code in between.
>> Kyle Simpson: You can immediately spot
the problem, there's a name collision.
They chose to name their variable
the same as the variable that
already existed in that scope.
And when they overwrote it on line 6,
it ended up breaking line
10 in a non-obvious way.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now,
you might be thinking to yourself, well,
that's why I should have used a const.
Except that wouldn't
really have fixed this.
It would've thrown an error
to a junior developer,
who then probably would have just
changed your const to a var anyway.
That doesn't really fix this problem.
The real problem,
the real root problem, is not that
the variable could be reassigned, but
that we have a naming collision problem.
>> Kyle Simpson: We have a problem where
two different entities wanna use the same
semantic name for some purpose.
>> Speaker 1: In the same scope.
>> Kyle Simpson: In the same scope.
So how do we resolve this problem
where we can't have two different
usages of the same name in the same
scope without them conflicting,
without them colliding,
but how do we fix that?
Well, naturally,
we could put them in different buckets.
And the best way that we've seen thus
far Is to wrap a function around it.
So if I make anotherTeacher
function here and
I declare line 4 that variable, now
it's a different colored marble, right?
It's a blue marble, not a red marble.
So that variable doesn't end up
conflicting with the one in line 10,
everything still works.
The problem is that now I have a function
that has a name in that scope.
It has the name anotherTeacher.
So I didn't really fix the naming
collision problem at all, did I?
I just shifted it to
a different variable name.
>> Kyle Simpson: It is true that we now
have a new scope, and we can contain
any assignments of that scope, but
we still have a naming collision problem.
>> Kyle Simpson: There's a principle
within software development, it's called
the principle of least exposure or
the principle of least privilege,
depending on which Wikipedia page or
which CS textbook you had.
Either way, whatever it's called,
the principle of least exposure or
privilege says this.
You should default to keeping
everything private, and
only exposing the minimal necessary.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's one of the core
principles of software engineering,
because it essentially sets
up a defensive posture.
It's a defensive approach that says,
I don't wanna make my stuff available
because I don't want
these sorts of problems.
As a matter of fact, there are three
main problems that we solve by this
defensive approach of the least
exposure or least prevalent principle.
Number one,
we have naming collision problems.
And if you hide something within a scope,
or hide something on a namespace or do
some other sort of hiding, then you reduce
the surface area for name collisions.
So number one, we have name collisions.
Number two, if you hide something,
it means that
somebody else can't accidentally of
intentionally misuse that thing.
If you expose it publicly,
everybody can use it.
And they definitely will use it,
even if you tell them not to.
If it's exposed, you can guarantee that,
at some point, somebody's gonna use it.
So if you hide it,
then you prevent them from accessing it.
But the third one, and
probably the most core and
important reason for this principle,
it's often overlooked.
If you hide something, like one of
those implementation details, or
like a variable name, you protect
yourself for future refactoring.
If you expose something, it's a guarantee
almost, there's gotta be some CS law for
this, it's a guarantee that
somebody's gonna use it.
And as soon as they start using it,
now you are restricted in your
ability to freely refactor it.
Because if you refactor,
you break their code.
And if they have an important enough
job title in the organization,
they're gonna squash that, right?
>> Kyle Simpson: It's almost like I've
seen that happen a few dozen times
[LAUGH] in my programming career, okay?
So one of the most important reasons for
hiding things is to prevent there being
that sort of overlap, and
give you the space to say, you know what?
I don't want to call it that at all, and
I don't want it to be an array at all.
I wanna refactor it to be a different way.
This principle is playing out in
what we're seeing in our code.
In this particular case,
it's the name collision, but
it could have been either of
the other two reasons as well.
We see it playing out and
we need to solve it, and
the way we need to solve it is it
with our understanding of scope.
But, right now, this usage of a function
is not really accomplishing that task, so
we need a better way of using
our knowledge of scope.
We need to create a scope,
like with a function, but
we need to somehow not pollute
the enclosing scope with some name, so
that we don't have this
naming collision issue.
To figure out how to do that,
I'm gonna take you through
a small little derivation.
I want you to go back to our earlier
discussion about how the line 8 would
execute, and I want you to think
about it in those two steps.
Remember, the first step was to
figure out what's in the marble, and
then the second step was
the parentheses to execute it.
So I want you to think about those as two
steps, and I'm gonna make it super obvious
by wrapping a parentheses
around the first step.
By the way, that code still works.
It looks weird, but
it still totally works.
You can put parentheses around
a function and it's still gonna execute.
And the reason it's gonna execute is
cuz it's gonna do the same thing as in
the previous slide, essentially, which
is to go get the value in that variable
first, and then the second set of
parentheses is gonna execute it.